I've wanted to be able to program for a long time; 20 years would probably be a conservative figure. Over these last two decades+, I've taken a few stabs at the effort: 
- a highschool CS class (but never making anything outside of class)
- starting college as a CS major (but faking my way through assigments with reverse-engineering tools I found online) and getting hung up on the required math classes before moving into "MIS" a business degree that only required a few CS classes I'd already taken
- founding a software company (mightyspring) and spending the better part of 6 months trying to build an MVP under the helpful tutalige of my brother, a real programmer, to very little success

With that last one, I built *just* enough to convince some real engineers to join me. They weren't impressed by my code (it was garbage; didn't really do anything useful, and was buggy), but they were impressed with my enthusiasm.

Every time I tried to learn how to program, I got hung up on things that, I discovered, were fundamental to being a programmer but /weren't/ programming. Did I want to be a sysadmin? No, but there I was, Googling how to add things to my $PATH. More than programming, the main thing I learned in building the shitty prototype for my first startup was the motion commands in VIM.

Wanting to build things is an endless font of motivatation for learning to program. During the times when I had an engineer to work with, I'd happily focus on the "business guy" tasks, but in the early days of any idea, having to find hacky ways to test assumptions instead of being able to being able to build a shitty prototype and put it out into the world drove me crazy. My instincts for what ideas were good kept getting better; my abilities to put them out into the world still required
someone else's help. 

On a personal level, I highly value minimalism and independance. Even more than raising a huge round of venture capital, I want to build a profitable 1-person business. I'm someone who can wear many of the hats required; my career has turned me into a salesperson and marketer, and my entreprenuerial interests have turned me into a product manager and UX designer. A few years ago, I started trying to develop a visual design skillset, and while it's still nacent, that leaves being a capable programmer as my last hurdle to being able to run a one-man internet businesss. 

Recently, I had a business idea that was small enough to envision actually being able to build myself. I definitely didn't have the skills yet, but I could see the path to acquiring them and the clear reason as to *why* for the first time. 

And so, I'm now a couple of months into this journey. I started with a basic python script, then a few strung together with an API call to Google Cloud Platform. After some HTML and CSS, I started into JavaScript, only to realize that modernizing my approach with React would unblock me today and tomorrow as well, so I dove in. 

My knowledge in all of these things today is surface level, but it's growing every day. I wake up in the mornings thinking about the programming problems I'm facing now and it's hard to go to sleep because I can't stop thinking about all the things I want to build for this little business. This type of work is FUN.

I'm a junior, junior programmer today. Tomorrow I'll be a junior programmer. And soon, I'll be a junior programmer with a shitty MVP. And I've never been so happy.

7/9/2020
