7/24/2020

Sometime in the last week I leveled up.

In the beginning (2-3 months ago), when I would spend time "programming" it meant I was following along with a Getting Started or similar post for whatever framework/language was up. The stack I've chosen is Python, Flask, and React, so there's plenty of material out there.

Once I'd worked through all of the Getting Started posts, fueled by the feeling of "Success!" that inevitably came from those, even though I was rote copying, I found blogs offering newbies like me a super-basic walkthrough of "Building Your First X App." I loved these because they were a touch more complex than the 'Getting Started's, and each piece of my stack had a number of high-quality variations on this theme to choose from.

One of them, a blog by Dave Ceddia (https://daveceddia.com/react-getting-started-tutorial/), strongly suggested at the end that the right next step was to break off on my own a build a small project without copying. Dave had another post offering 6 ideas for small apps to try, so I decided to try the Weather App he suggested and went to work.

It took me almost two weeks to get my Weather App working properly. I did the slightly more enhanced version he suggested, and I remember feeling like I was "really programming."

My big kick to decide to tackle all of this learning sprung from a new startup idea I had; something that seemed simple enough to build, if only I actually had the skills. After kicking myself for not learning sooner, as I've done routinely over the years, I dove in. So, now, after my weather app, I decided it was time to work on the actual idea.

I fell pretty hard. Without the hand-holding from an experienced person's well-scoped-for-newbies suggestions, I found myself floudering. I spent a ton of time on Stack Overflow and "programming" mostly meant spending time reading documentation.

I also had an ace in the hole -- my brother, the excellent software engineer and patient teacher that he is, was willing to bail me out. He'd explain things to me that still felt out of reach after a documentation deep-dive, and his encouraging words about my progress keep me moving after a day of feeling like I'd gotten no where.

Two weeks into this much bigger, more daunting project, "programming" meant writing some spaghetti code and then spending an hour over video chat with my brother unsticking me. My progress without his aid was only slightly above zero.

Two days ago, when I went to call my brother, I realized that it'd been 5 days since I'd called him for help. Granted, I wasn't spending all day programming each of those 5 days, but I'd made at least one commit each day. He told me about "exponential backoffs" and said that I was now skilled enough to get a job programming.

Today I am rearchitecting some of my app; I'm so close to finished MVP and the code and choices I made at the beginning of this project seem ridiculous now. My app "worked" but was buggy, so I'm trying to make it a bit more bullet-proof.

"Programming" today is problem-solving. I guess it always was, on some meta-level, but now it's "ok, here are 3 ways I could build this thing. Which makes the most sense?" and then I start writing. I still check Stack Overflow plenty. I still have to reference the docs (though this is getting faster and more infrequent). I still have to call my brother for help. But I'm a programmer now.
