9/16/2020

I got past my first major bug recently, and woof -- I have a lot to learn. This was definitely trial-by-fire, and it nearly broke me loose from this programming journey.

My experienced programmer-brother couldn't solve this bug easily by looking at my code (as he's been able to do for all of my bugs to date), and neither could my experienced programmer-friend who works in React all day long. Fortuntely, they both had great advice for attacking the problem. Unfortunately, I was weirdly resistant to taking it at first.

It's been hard for me to come to terms with the fact that you're going to rewrite a lot of code.

You can't measure your progress in new lines of code written -- sometimes you make the most progress by removing code and simplifying things; sometimes you write code that's virtually identical to existing code to prove where you went wrong (what I had to do in this case). The best practice that comes from the acceptance of rewriting code is to write a toy version first and then methodically add to it until all features are present.

While I've been resistant to this as a default practice because it feels slow, I'm learning that it's almost always faster in the long run. When things go wrong, you know exactly when. Guessing about what code is causing your problem is soul-sucking.

Now that I'm on ther other side, having taken my proverbial big step back (in terms of feelings of confidence) over the last two weeks, I think I'm ready for some foreward momentum again. I'm learning how to use an ORM (SQLAlchemy in this case) to work a database into my app.

Big shoutout to Miguel Grinberg (https://blog.miguelgrinberg.com/index) for his awesome blog and Flask tutorials. Best resource I've found yet for learning this stuff.
